The good founders need to be able to
dominate both market share and wallet
share. It is not a choice. You need to
get better at both. It feels like every
company wants to be an AI company these
days. How is AI pricing different?
>> The winners in AI will need to master
monetization from day one. If you're
bringing a lot of value to the table and
you started training your customers to
expect $20 a month and you anchored
yourself on a raw price point, you're in
trouble. 20% of what you build drives
80% of the willingness to pay. But the
irony is that that 20% is the easiest
thing to build often. What would you say
is the biggest lesson you want founders
to take away? If you think about market
share and wallet share, let's think
about it as a 2x two. The quadrant that
you really want to be in is the
outcomebased pricing model. The top
right quadrant where you have great
autonomy and great attribution. About 5%
of companies are probably in a true
outcomebased pricing model. If you want
to win in AI, figure out a way to get to
that quadrant. Do you feel like the
popular IDE startups are going to be in
trouble down the road?
>> Some of them yes without naming names.
>> Today my guest is Mavan Ramanujam. Mavan
is the smartest person I know on pricing
and monetization strategy. As managing
partner at Simon Kutcher, he's worked
with over 250 companies including 30
unicorns to help them figure out how to
price, package, and grow their products.
He's also the author of the book on
pricing called Monetizing Innovation.
And now he's back with a new book, a
sequel called Scaling Innovation, which
teaches you how to architect your
business for long-term profitable
growth. It also how to avoid the common
traps that teams fall into that keep
them from building real, durable,
sustainable businesses. Bill Gurley
wrote the forward. I had a chance to
read an early copy. I absolutely loved
it. It's a book that every founder needs
to read. And in this episode, Mavon
shares many of the biggest lessons from
the book, including how pricing strategy
is very different for AI companies, why
you need to get your pricing model right
from the start in today's market, a very
simple 2x two to help you pick your
pricing model, how to gain pricing
power, a ton of tactical advice for
negotiating more effectively, the most
common traps founders fall into, and so
much more. If you order five copies of
the book, Mavon is offering a chance to
win a free conversation with them, a
signed copy of the book, an invite to
the book launch, a t-shirt, and more.
Just send a copy of your purchase
receipt to promo at 49palmsvc.com.
And some more good news, Marvon is now
more accessible. He left Simon Kutcher.
He's now investing full-time with his
own fund. He focuses on earlystage AI
companies. If you want to work with him,
check him out at 49palmsvc.com.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget
to subscribe and follow it in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. With
that, I bring you Monavon Ramanujam.
This episode is brought to you by
Interpret. Interpret is a customer
intelligence platform used by leading CX
and product orgs like Canva, Notion,
Perplexity, Strava, Hinge, and Linear to
leverage the voice of the customer and
build best-in-class products. Interpret
unifies all customer conversations in
real time from gong recordings to Zenesk
tickets to Twitter threads and makes it
available for your team for analysis and
for action. What makes Interpret unique
is its ability to build and update a
customerspecific knowledge graph that
provides the most granular and accurate
categorization of all customer feedback
and connects that customer feedback to
critical metrics like revenue and
seesat. If modernizing your voice of
customer program to a generational
upgrade is a 2025 priority like
customer- ccentric industry leaders like
Canva, Notion, Perplexity, and Linear,
reach out to the team at
interpret.com/lenny.
That's np pr.com/lenny.
Today's episode is brought to you by dx.
If you're an engineering leader or on a
platform team, at some point your CEO
will inevitably ask you for productivity
metrics. But measuring engineering
organizations is hard. And we can all
agree that simple metrics like the
number of PRs or commits doesn't tell
the full story. That's where DX comes
in. DX is an engineering intelligence
solution designed by leading
researchers, including those behind the
Dora and Space frameworks. It combines
quantitative data from developer tools
with qualitative feedback from
developers to give you a complete view
of engineering productivity and the
factors affecting it. Learn why some of
the world's most iconic companies like
Etsy, Dropbox, Twilio, Versel, and Web
Flow rely on DX. Visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
Maravan, thank you so much for being
here and welcome to the podcast.
>> It's exciting to be back, Lenny. Thanks
so much for hosting me again. This is a
a very rare second visit to the podcast.
You've got a new book coming out. I've
got a very early copy right here. If
you're watching on YouTube, here's the
copy you sent me. It's like 200 pages.
Did you print this out on your printer,
by the way?
>> Yes. I think I ran out of printer ink
after that, I guess.
>> I appreciate the early copy. It's
amazing. What we're going to be doing
with this conversation is going through
some of the biggest lessons that you
share in this book to give people a
sense of many of the things that you
share, many things you've learned since
writing the first book. Let me start
with this question. Why did you decide
to write another book and what is the
difference between scaling innovation
which is the name of this book and
monetizing innovation is the name of
their first book. So monetizing
innovation, we actually wrote it 8 years
ago. Time flies. Uh and the core thesis
of that book was you know how do you
build products that are not just cool
but are products that people need value
and are actually willing to pay for and
I think that took a life of its own and
over the years we kept getting another
question from entrepreneurs that hey we
built a great product we know there is
willingness to pay but how do we build a
great business how do we scale this and
the brutal truth is that even if you
have a great product you might actually
not figure out a way to grow fast and
grow profitably so we wrote scaling
innovation in an effort to actually
solve that puzzle. So you can think of
this as a sequel to monetizing
innovation and monetizing innovation
talked about how to build great
products. Scaling innovation talks about
how to build a great business and you
know writing a book is there needs to be
a purpose for this. For me the reason
for writing books is about you know
giving a bit back based on what I know
to like founders and bookw writing is
hard. Writing a good book is even
harder. And just like uh monetizing
innovation, scaling innovation is not,
you know, marketing fluff. It actually
has real actionable stuff packed in that
you can go on Monday morning and start
implementing. And uh we wrote this book
to give back a bit of what we know and
to help companies scale and architect
towards profitable growth. I love people
like you that do the work for I don't
know decades at this point learn from
real life experiences over and over and
over and then just share all this stuff
with people like this is the most the
highest ROI way to learn is uh letting
you do all this work to learn all these
things and then you share all your
answers with us. So that's that's why I
love these books. If you had to boil
down the thesis of this book into just
like a simple thought so that we can
just start to plant this in founders's
heads, what would what would that be? So
if I have to boil down the core thesis
of the book, it is basically that if you
want to build an enduring business, you
need to be able to architect towards
profitable growth. What that means is
you need to be able to master two
engines, market share and wallet share.
It sounds simple on the surface, but
it's actually quite complex because if
you unpack that for gaining market share
and wallet share, you need to be good at
acquisition, monetization, and retention
as in get customers, make an initial
money on them, but also make money on an
ongoing basis and have your customers
actually refer more customers. Many
companies actually what they do is they
focus on a single engine strategy. So
they focus on one of those two topics
and pretty much exclude the other one.
That leads to all kinds of situations.
You see companies saying I'll grow at
all costs and postpone monetization. You
see some who would say you know I'm
going to monetize earlier on but they
might miss out on acquisition
opportunities or yet others who are so
focused on a small set of loyal customer
base that they're neither monetizing nor
are they actually acquiring. So to to
the good founders need to be able to
dominate both market share and wallet
share. It is not a choice. You need to
get better at both. But this does not
mean that you're putting equal effort on
market share and wallet share at all
given points in time. But it means
you're putting equal attention on both
those topics and being thoughtful about
the trade-offs and saying how can I
actually look at these two topics
together so that I'm architecting
towards profitable growth. That's the
core thesis of the book. We actually
showcase nine strategies that actually
allow companies uh you know to architect
towards profitable growth. And every
chapter ends with how this particular
strategy uh you know circumvents a
single engine problem and helps you you
know focus on market share and wallet
share at the same time. And there's also
CEO questions and leadership questions
that people should reflect on when they
architect towards profitable growth and
are they on the right track? I mean
think of it this way. If you're flying
a, you know, aircraft, you don't want to
fly it on one engine. Why do you
actually want to do that for your
business? Okay. So, I imagine many
founders or people thinking about
starting a company are are not feeling
like they are in one bucket or another.
There's like intuitively you're not
like, "Oh, of course, we're going to
just focus on growth forever and that's
all that matters." You had these kind of
traps that founders fall into that you
referenced a bit. Can you just talk
again about just like the common traps
you find founders fall into that uh
people may recognize like that's
what I'm doing probably.
>> So let's unpack the traps that are
correlated to the archetypes. So if
you're a you know disruptor archetype
you might fall into one of two traps.
The first one is you might land but you
might not expand as in in your eagerness
for like acquiring you might have
actually given away a lot at less and
you have given the farm away but you
don't have anything to expand to. That's
the first trap you're likely to fall
into. The second trap that you actually
fall into is you start uh you know a
market share that is one is different
from a market share that is actually
held. If you're so acquisition focused,
you're actually focused on getting more
and more customers, but you're not
spending enough time with customers that
you actually got to keep them, upsell
them, you know, keep them happy, etc.
So, you might fall into that trap. If
you're a money maker, you fall into one
of two traps. The first one is you might
nickel and dime your customers to death.
You know, because you're focused on
monetization, you might come up with a,
you know, very differentiated pricing
model, different levers, hidden fees,
things to charge for, you know, many
different things. and come across as
just trying to nickel and dime your
customer. The second trap that a money
maker actually falls into is that you
know you fall into the price premium
paradox where you you you think that
pricing high actually indicates value
but you priced it so high that you
actually start you know hurting your
acquisition. So it is it is just becomes
irrelevant for most people. If you're in
the community builder you actually fall
into like two common traps. The first
one is you're focused so much on the you
know foundation that you actually miss
the frontier which is you're so focused
on your loyal customer base that you
forget forget to like attract you know
different types of customers and you're
not acquiring. And the second trap that
you fall into if you're a community
builder is you know you train your
customers to expect more for less
because you're so eager to satisfy your
loyal base. You start giving them more
and more and you're training your best
customer base to expect more for less.
So these six traps are very common
across these archetypes. Being a
profitable growth architect means that
you're avoiding these traps and you're
in in other words, you're simultaneously
being a disruptor, a money maker, and a
community builder all at the same time.
And how do you actually have that
archetype and the right strategies to
actually go about your business?
>> Okay, so this is what you want to not
do. You mentioned you have nine
strategies for how you actually want to
approach pricing, monetization, scaling,
monetization and innovation. Can you
share a couple of these strategies,
maybe two or three, maybe some of your
favorites?
>> Sure. So I will unpack a couple of uh
you know strategies. Maybe the first one
I would take is what we call as
beautifully simple pricing. So in your
early days, it is by far more important
to have pricing that is really simple
and is not creating too much friction in
the sales conversation. I mean the asset
test that you probably should go back on
Monday morning and do is take some of
your early prospects or customers and
ask them to articulate the pricing
strategy back to you. Right? If they
were to actually sell on your behalf,
how would they describe the pricing
strategy? And if they cannot you know
contextualize that in a simple manner
and actually explain you don't have a
simple pricing strategy. It's as simple
as that. And having a simple pricing
strategy also means that you know your
pricing needs to be able to tell a value
story as in you need to contextualize
your price based on the value that you
actually bring to the table. A great
example here is you know superhuman when
they started they were actually
competing with like you know free email
products and they were coming up with a
premium email experience and how do you
actually price that and I thought the
team at Rahul with the team at
superhuman with Rahul and others did a
pretty good job they came up with a $30
price point per month which was pretty
simple but the way they kind of told the
story was that you know you pay a dollar
a day for actually getting four hours of
productivity back in the week and then
suddenly the pricing doesn't look too
off. I mean, it's like the price for a
latte in a week to actually get four
hours back. Why wouldn't I actually do
that, right? And pricing
contextualization and value story
doesn't need to just apply for premium
products. If you take another example
like the Subway $5 footong is a
different way to say a story with
pricing that oh for a $5 you get a lot
of value actually back, right? So
beautifully simple pricing really means
coming up with a simple pricing strategy
that your customers immediately get and
your pricing is actually telling a value
story. And how do you actually get that?
So in the book we have a checklist of 10
different things that you actually need
to look at to make sure that your
pricing is beautifully simple. As we go
through these strategies, is your advice
try all these things like you should do
as many of these strategies as you can
or is it maybe pick a few that work for
you or just one is enough? So there are
nine strategies. We have organized that
into strategies that apply during your
startup phase like the just just when
you get started and strategies that
apply to you in your scaleup phase. So
there are four strategies that you need
to do in your startup and five in the
scaleup. So it's quite manageable. I
would argue that all four apply in the
startup and all five actually apply in
the scaleup phase. But it's not like you
need to start focusing on nine things
from day one. So this first one was was
the startup phase.
>> Yeah. The beautifully simple pricing is
the startup. Exactly. And so in the
scaleup phase, I think the one of the
most important strategies is to like,
you know, master negotiations and really
get uh better at acing negotiations,
right? Especially if you're in a B2B
situation. And how do you actually do
that? Because you need to be able to
talk about the value and contextualize
your price based on those kind of
conversations. So to master
negotiations, it comes down to actually
three things. mastering gives and gets,
being good at value selling, and third
having the right negotiation strategies.
So, let's unpack that each at a time.
So, giving and getting, why is that
important? Because in a negotiation, you
know, typically you're giving, I mean,
you're giving concessions, people are
asking. If you don't get anything back,
you're basically indicating to the other
person that they can keep beating you up
and you can, you know, you you need to
keep giving. But if if you're giving
something but you ask for something in
exchange, then you're basically bringing
authenticity into the negotiation
because it actually means something you
to you to give. So you're asking
something back. It actually makes the
negotiation way more effective. And you
know in the book we actually talk about
the top 10 gets in B2B and the top 10
gets in B2C. One of my favorite gets in
the B2B situation is what I call as
conducting a value audit. So what this
means is if you're giving a concession
ask for a value audit and exchange where
every 6 months you know a team
internally from your customers would be
commissioned to actually conduct a value
assessment of your products so that it
becomes their business case and you
co-create it with them saying how much
value is actually produced and this is
great because if they actually engage in
that that gives you tremendous pricing
power for like renegotiations because it
is their business case they champion it
internally and you're pretty much making
your products pretty sticky. So it's a
pretty harmless debt, but it could be
very powerful for like you know future
negotiations. So being good at gives and
gets is Thank you. for being good at
gives and gets is really you know
critical. The second thing in mastering
negotiations is being good at value
selling. And for being good at value
selling you need to do three things.
First you need to be able to like create
the needs. Second you need to be able to
create affirmation loops. And the third
one is creating a good ROI model. And
let's talk about each of those. So
creating needs is very important because
you know many uh founders show up and
try to understand what are the needs of
the customers. That's one way to look at
it. But you need to be able to create
needs rather than just discover them
right. So like for instance if you're a
you know marketing automation AI product
and uh you know you you save like let's
say three weeks of like work that
actually needs to be done to actually
get stuff in a dashboard that can be
analyzed by marketing managers. The way
you create the need is ask about
existing processes and say okay so just
so I understand all of this stuff
actually takes you three weeks to like
put data together to actually have
meaningful dashboards for your you know
marketing managers to you know take
action. What if that was available to
you instantaneously?
Oh, you have now just created a need.
Right? So, be in that mindset of
creating a need as opposed to just
discovering them. The second thing is,
you know, creating affirmation loops.
And this is really important. I've seen
a lot of founders get into negotiations.
They're so eager to talk about their
products. They keep talking about the
products without any affirmation from
the other side. You need to pass and
create affirmation loops. Things like
for instance, okay, so far you have seen
all of this. How does this actually uh
you know play out in your company? Do
you see it as valuable? What about this
dashboard you actually like? So when you
ask these kind of questions and your
customers are playing back the value
that they actually see in your product,
you're creating affirmation loops which
become tremendously useful when you
start selling the product finally
because if they've agreed that there's
value that is being produced then you
also have a better commercial
discussion. And the third one is, you
know, creating a good ROI model. And,
you know, I see a lot of founders work
on a P and after the P is over, they'll
show up with an ROI model and try to
defend a price. You've already lost the
battle. I mean, no one is going to
believe an ROI model that you just
cooked up. Everyone is going to
challenge you on assumptions. the the
right way to think about an ROI model is
to actually co-create it with your
customers from day one which means you
know agree and validate on the
assumptions and the inputs. So like hey
how long does this process take today?
How many engineers are there? So you
create ask questions that are all inputs
to an ROI model and if you have done
that process and the customer agrees on
all the inputs they are very unlikely to
push back on the output of an ROI model.
So a P needs to be framed as the purpose
of a P is to build a business case and
we are going to co-create an ROI model
with the customer as opposed to it being
a you know tech and product
functionality feature test and you show
up with an ROI model and when you're
building an ROI model there are many
buckets to focus on but the there are
three that are very critical. The first
one is you know what are the incremental
gains that you actually bring to the
table based on KPIs and metrics that
your customer is tracking. So this could
be things like incremental revenue,
reduction in churn. These are the
immediate tangible clear impact to the
business line based on the products that
you actually bring to the table. The
second bucket is you know cost savings.
Are you reducing headcount? Are you
reducing license costs? Like what are
the tangible cost savings? And the third
one which is often overlooked is
opportunity cost. For instance, if you
save you know 10 hours of time for like
a team, what do they actually do with
that 10 hours? That can also be
quantified. So when you put all of these
three things together, you start
building a proper ROI model that you can
actually use in your value selling to
defend the right price. And the so we
talked about three steps in mastering
negotiations. The first one was gives
and gets. The second one was you know
getting better at value selling. The
third one is actually getting better at
even negotiations and what strategies
would you actually use and there are a
couple of uh you know strategies that we
have found to be really uh productive.
The first one is to show up with
options. You know many many founders uh
rush with like one product and one price
and say okay this is a 100k product and
that's what we're trying to sell.
Inevitably what will happen is the you
know the immediate focus of the
conversation will be on the price and
you're only talking about price. But if
you have options on the table, let's say
if you have a, you know, good, better,
best. If you have 100k product, a 200k
and a 300k option, then you're not just
talking price, you're talking value.
Because if your customer is budget
conscious, they'd say, hey, I like the
100k price point, but I actually like
the functionality in your 200k product.
Then your immediate question is, what in
the functionality do you actually like?
Why is that beneficial for you? So you
switch the conversation back to like,
you know, value as opposed to just
talking about price. And we have seen
that with these kind of conversations,
you're by far more better off to
actually land in a much better place
than just showcasing one product and one
price. And and showcasing options
doesn't need to be just different
products. It could even be a pricing
model choice. And I'd probably give a,
you know, simple hack that people can
try on Monday morning. Um, you know, I
was talking to this founder who said,
"Hey, I think uh I think the budget is
about 100K. Um that's what I believe
from the key stakeholder. But my product
really brings crazy value. It I could
even charge let's say a 500k for this
product but I don't have the courage to
actually go and ask for a 500k uh you
know price because I kind of know 100k
is the budget. What should I do? Right?
So for those kind of situations actually
show up with options in your pricing
model. So I we we coached him to like go
in with a 100K plus 10% on any
incremental value that you bring or it's
a 500k fixed. So now this is actually a
great situation in negotiation because
if you're price sensitive, you're
focused on the 100k. It's a you know
small fee to actually get started but
the conversation would gravitate towards
what is that 10%? How do you measure
value? That's a great conversation to
have because now you're talking about
how you add value, where's the value
generation, what portion would you take
and you know you see one of two
situations. Either the customer would
say that's great, you're putting skin in
the game, let's go with 100k and 10%. Or
80% of the situations you might actually
want to avoid the outcome based pricing
as a buyer, but you're not really
fixated on the 500k at that point. It is
the premium that you're actually paying
for like the certaintity. So no one is
focusing on the 500k because there's a
100k option on the table and you just
put a 500k and got the courage to do
that and in this specific situation that
500k got negotiated to 400k and they
just forex the deal compared to where
they would be. Right? So having options
on the table when you negotiate is
critical and there's also some tactics
that we showcase in the book like
anchoring is important. If you start
high you will also end up higher. But
the and also tapering concessions like
how do you give concessions? I mean the
worst negotiators will start by giving
you know a small concession and then
they give a bit more when someone asks
like you might give a 5% discount and
the procurement guy says that's not
enough. Okay, I'll give you 10% more.
Okay, that's not enough. I'll give you
15. What are you indicating to the other
person? You're just basically indicating
that I can keep beating you up and I can
get more discounts. The best negotiators
who taper the concessions so they would
say I can give you 15%. Okay, I need
more. I'll give you five. I need more.
I'll give you two. So you're
automatically indicating to the other
person that the negotiation is actually
ending. Right? So how do you taper
concessions also become important. So
when you put all of these three things
together, if you master your gives and
gets, you get better at value selling
and you use the right negotiation
strategy, you can extract full value
from every deal. That's probably way
more important when you're in the
scaleup phase.
>> This is such great advice. I love that
this is just one small chapter of your
book. Like this could make or break your
company. It's interesting that you have
a whole thing on negotiation in a book
about uh scaling innovation and growing
your company. Is the assumption here
that your pricing and monetization is so
impacted by how well you negotiate
because that changes your entire pricing
structure and how much you're making. Is
that why you put so much effort into
this part?
>> Exactly. I mean in a B2B situation you
can set all the pricing you want, come
up with great pricing models, but at
least even today it's a human having a
human conversation trying to negotiate.
So if you cannot contextualize you know
what you put on the table, how do you
negotiate around value? You know how do
you contextualize your price? You're
leaving a lot of money on the table. So
to us negotiations is yet another
monetization topic where you're thinking
about it as extracting full value from
every deal. And this is not just uh you
know negotiation tactics like you know
keep your boss at home and just
negotiate and things like that. There's
actual negotiation strategies that are
rooted on value selling gives and gets
and focusing on extracting full value
from every deal. So useful this idea of
throwing out a third like higher priced
option say 500k. It's so interesting
because usually the advice I hear is
like just throw out twice the number you
used to throw out. Just like put it out
there just in case which is really
scary, right? To ask for like what about
$50,000? And this is like a much less
scary way of doing that. Okay, but we
also have this 500k option. Here's what
you get. And then they may be like, "Oh,
that's exactly what we want." And you're
like, "Oh, wow. It worked."
>> Exactly. It's a very simple hack to get
your courage.
>> That is a good price point.
>> Wow. Uh this is awesome. This is just
like a a golden nugget within golden
nuggets of of advice. Okay. So, you have
nine strategies. We've covered two.
Let's not get into them, but just what
are a few more just so people know what
else they might be able to learn.
>> Sure. We talk about how to uh you know
land and expand as in how to design your
best free product in such a way that
you're landing but also expanding. We
talk about things like how to have the
right packaging strategy. You know how
to stop churn before it happens. How to
do price increases effectively because
at some point in your scaleup journey
you need to increase price but how do
you do that in a meaningful uh you know
fashion. So we have you know various
strategies that apply both for the
startup and the scaleup phase but in
combination all of those things help you
articulate uh and architect towards
profitable growth. Awesome. Okay let's
talk about AI for a bit. A lot of your
book is about how AI pricing is very
different from other previous
traditional pricing strategies and it
feels like every company wants to be an
AI company these days. So I think this
is going to apply to a lot of people.
How is AI pricing different? Yeah, AI
pricing is very different from the
previous uh you know vintage of
companies. Why is that so? Because AI
founders need to tackle monetization
from the very early days like day one in
their seat stage preede uh kind of thing
which was not probably the focus for you
know the previous SAS companies. Why is
that so? Because of two reasons. One
there's for the first time there's cost
dynamics to actually navigate. So you
need to think about monetization from
day one. But there's also a more
critical reason which is value capture.
Because with AI products, you're
actually bringing a lot of value to the
table. And if you don't capture that
from day one, then you're training your
customers to expect more for less. So
for instance, think about this. If
you're building a, you know, aentic AI
uh product that taps into labor budgets,
labor budgets are 10x compared to
software budgets. So if you use all the
old playbooks then you're under
monetizing again from day one and and
training your customers to expect more
for less. So how do you come up with you
know foundational models that actually
allow you to like capture the value that
you bring to the table. And why has this
become critical? Because you know with
AI finally founders can you know really
solve the attribution problem. In the
previous vintages like for instance if
you take slack you can say that the
productivity went up efficiency happened
but you cannot measure it monitor it
attribute it to slack okay that's
probably why they were in a seedbased
pricing you know pricing model but in
today's situations you see companies
that say in a fortune company I was able
to improve throughput by 10% reduce
scrap by 5% and when you get into those
kind of situation where an AI is
creating core value and is attributable
to the AI right? You get a lot of
pricing power. So the two questions that
we commonly hear from you know AI
founders is how do I set the right
pricing model as in how do I charge
which becomes you know way more
important than how much you charge
because the underlining business model
has changed. It is not we have moved
from you know software being a you know
pay for access to like now you're paying
for work delivered. So like the
monetization models become key. That is
the first question that people actually
ask us. The second one is you know how
do I navigate PC's commercial
discussions early because the buyer on
the other side also wants to see the
value before they engage in a commercial
discussion. So those two topics become
very critical and we have showcased a
lot of this in the book. This episode is
brought to you by Persona, the adaptable
identity platform that helps businesses
fight fraud, meet compliance
requirements, and build trust. While
you're listening to this right now, how
do you know that you're really listening
to me, Lenny? These days, it's easier
than ever for fraudsters to steal PII,
faces, and identities. That's where
Persona comes in. Persona helps leading
companies like LinkedIn, Etsy, and
Twilio securely verify individuals and
businesses across the world. What sets
Persona apart is its configurability.
Every company has different needs
depending on its industry, use cases,
risk tolerance, and user demographics.
That's why Persona offers flexible
building blocks that allow you to build
tailored collection and verification
flows that maximize conversion while
minimizing risk. Plus, Persona's
orchestration tools automate your
identity process so that you can fight
rapidly shifting fraud and meet new
waves of regulation. Whether you're a
startup or an enterprise business,
Persona has a plan for you. Learn more
at withpersona.com/lenny.
Again, that's with perso na.com/lenny.
Let's talk about this PC piece because I
think this is something a lot of people
deal with and then I want to talk about
this 2 by two that you have in the book
and I'll I'll actually pull it up. So,
let's talk about PC's first. So PC's uh
you know when we talk about PC's many
founders think about a PC as a proof of
technical functionality and is their
product actually working in like their
customer environments and they set up
the expectation that way saying hey
we're going to put the product and we
are going to see if it actually works
and and they would probably say should I
charge for a P versus not and we will
unpack that in a bit should you or
should you not and the that's actually a
completely wrong way of framing it. The
P should be framed as the entire goal of
the P is to create a business case.
Period. Full stop. It is not to like
demonstrate you know product
functionality fit within your customer
environments ability to integrate. All
of that stuff is a consequence of the
business case. So if you frame it this
way is you can say look it is a 30-day
pilot for cocreating an ROI model and
building a business case along with your
users. If we see value at the end of the
30 days based on the business case, we
can get to commercial discussions. So
that way you have actually not talked
about your price. You're only focused on
co-creating a business case with the
customer and based on the business case
you can actually come up with, you know,
a proper commercial agreement and if
they see value, they're going to pay you
for it. Right? So thinking about the
PC's in that kind of manner and uh you
know the question that I often get asked
is should I charge for a PC?
And the answer is uh yes, but smartly.
Um let's talk about why it's important
to charge. Uh the reason you need to
charge for a P is you start isolating
people who are just tire kickers versus
serious buyers. It becomes a lead
qualification mechanism. If you didn't
have that, you're going to attract all
of these curious buyers who just curious
about the AI. They just want to see if
it works or not. They will say yes, I'll
engage with the P. They will take 30,
60, 90 days with you. They will burn a
lot of resources. Never buy. you've just
wasted your time. Time is of the
essence. So like having a price tag to
your PC actually indicates that you know
there is seriousness on both sides. So
you should charge. But how do you
actually charge for it? You need to
charge for it smartly. Um what this
means is that you need to make sure that
your PC pricing is not a reflection of
your actual commercial deal. Because
let's say if you just say it's a 10k P
for like a 30-day pilot, if you don't
talk about the fact that it is not the
same as your commercial discussion, you
have now set an anchor that okay, it's a
120k per per year kind of deal if the PC
works. So you have to be clear that the
10K is only for building a business
case. Commercial discussions will follow
after that. It is not an indication of
the actual commercial discussion. But
your you know buyer on the other side
might still push you saying that's all
great but I I need a price or a budget
otherwise I won't move forward with it.
So there are two ways to actually you
know deflect those kind of questions.
The first way is you know contextualize
the price on the value. So you you can
say something like if if you're push for
price, hey for customers such as yours,
you know, we have been able to at least
unlock 10 million in very similar
situations and our pricing is, you know,
1 is to 10x when it comes to ROI. So you
basically said that you're a million
dollars to actually get started, but you
actually didn't say it. You just said
it's a 10 million and I'm I'm taking one
in 10 in in exchange for it. So you've
kind of given the buyer an indication,
but you have framed it in such a manner
that that actually is justifiable,
right? one in 10x ROI. So that's one way
to do it. They might still say yeah
that's good but I need a you know
budget. So then rather than just give
them a budget saying it could be a 200k
you know uh option. Don't do that.
That's the worst thing you can actually
say. Give them a range. You can say
something like look the final pricing
would be anywhere from 500k to a
million. And based on the business case
that we would co-create with you we can
pick a point in in that range that
justifies the value that we bring to the
table. So you're giving budgetary
ranges, right? So that's the other way
to actually go about PC's. So how you
navigate your early wins, who you choose
uh is very critical when you're building
companies at scale and fast in AI
because that actually dictates the
destiny for the you know rest of your
future and picking those early wins is
very very critical and uh and having you
know buyers who are serious lead
qualifying having the right PC process
and thinking about PC's as frankly not
just uh trying to see if your product
actually works and delivers value But
it's a great chance to have a commercial
test and learn experiment and have fun
with it and try to see what you can you
know bring to the table in terms of your
value and what portion can you actually
take. So the core kind of takeaway here
is for AI companies you no longer can
just grow and figure out monetization
later. Your advice here is uh what you
start with is what you're going to end
up with. And it's very easy to
undermonetize because people aren't
realizing that they're now helping with
actual labor force uh savings versus
just like SAS software that's making
people a little bit more efficient.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I strongly
believe that the winners in AI will need
to master monetization and they need to
ma master it from day one. I mean and
when we talk to early stage founders it
is a topic that keeps many people up at
night but that's also why we wrote
scaling innovation and other assets so
that they can get some more courage to
think about you know pricing correctly
from day one and it's uh become very
critical for AI companies to do that.
>> Do you feel like the popular IDE
startups I won't name names do you think
they've undermonetized and they're going
to be in trouble down the road?
>> Some of them for sure have. I think they
will probably run out of it because they
might show a lot of uh let's say uh fast
revenue growth but is that enduring
revenue are people actually going to
stay and is there going to be churn and
you know so there are a lot of uh uh
aspects to architecting profitable
growth it's not just growing fast but
also growing profitably and having an
enduring business so some of them yes
without naming names uh but uh yeah I
think that's why it's it's it's
important to be thoughtful about market
share and wallet share well those are So
there I think what you're saying here is
they may not the retention may not work
for some of these companies but on the
other hand they're really cheap like 20
bucks a month to help your engineer be
like 10 times more productive
potentially like is that too good a
deal? Do you think they should have
priced a lot higher? Yeah, for sure. I
mean if you're bringing a lot of value
to the table and you started training
your customers to expect $20 a month and
you anchored yourself on a low price
point. I think there are companies that
have actually done that and they try to
undo it with like you know having more
sophisticated let's say products that
are actually higher priced or much
higher priced etc. That's one way to
like undo that situation. So it is it's
really a trade-off between you know
getting more customers and making money
at the same time. That's the whole point
of the book market share and wallet
share and how do you dominate both? So,
if they're being thoughtful about both
and have a vision to not just, you know,
grow market share, but also have a clear
strategy to land and expand and increase
wallet share, those strategies might pan
out for those types of companies. If you
just threw out a $20 product hoping to
just, you know, accelerate your market
share, you're in trouble. Okay, this is
a great segue to this 2x two, which goes
much deeper into this. So, it's easy to
be like, here's what you shouldn't do.
Here's your advice on what to actually
do. So, I'm going to pull up on my
screen this 2 by two that you have in
your book. So if you're watching on
YouTube, you'll be able to see it. Uh so
talk about this. This is essentially how
to figure out an I the best possible
pricing model and where you have the
most power. So when you talk about AI
companies and you know monetization
models, we get asked this question.
Should I be usage based? Should I be
outcome? Should I be you know a copilot
mode or how do I actually think about my
pricing model? So we came up with this
framework which is a you know relatively
simple straightforward framework but
very powerful. So there are two axes
here. One is attribution and the other
one is autonomy. And when you have high
attribution and high autonomy, that is
when you have high pricing power. And
we'll come back to that in a bit. Right?
So let's take the first uh you know
bottom left quadrant. That is the
quadrant where your attribution is low
and your autonomy is low. In that
situation, the best pricing archetype
that actually fits is it is actually a
seedbased or a subscription model
because there's not much to do about it
because you're not, you know, being able
to like attribute a lot of value to what
you bring, but you're in a co-pilot mode
and you're not in an autonomous mode.
So, a seatbased pricing would actually
make sense. But if you're at that
quadrant, the immediate thing to think
about is how do you actually build more
attribution and move to the right so
that you actually get more pricing
power. Uh so if you think about the you
know bottom right quadrant those are
companies that have actually done that
they have more they can prove more
attribution to like what they actually
bring to the table but they are still
not in a fully autonomous mode as in
there is still humans in the loop. If
you take cursor for instance you know it
definitely improves productivity can
actually bring down the time to actually
you know do code the attribution is
clear but it's still in a co-pilot mode.
In those kind of situations, a hybrid
pricing model is the best option where
you still have a, you know, seedbased
model for the co-pilot kind of use case,
but you also layer in a consumption
model which actually says there are
certain number of AI credits or tokens
that can layer in the usage aspects. So
if you use more and more then you're
actually paying more on consumption. So
it's a hybrid model that actually works
there. If you look at the top uh you
know left quadrant those are you know
products that are very autonomous but
are not uh strong on attribution. So
these tend to be mostly like backend or
infrastructure kind of products that are
core critical to like run businesses can
be autonomous uh but they are not
directly impacting the KPIs that
businesses are tracking and hence cannot
prove attribution very effectively. So
you know in that situation you need to
be on a pay for what you consume and a
usage based model a seatbased model
would not make sense because autonomous
there's no human in the loop. Uh but
that's why you're also in a usage based
model saying the more you use it uh the
more you're actually charged and usage
becomes a proxy for the value that you
bring to the table. The quadrant that
you really want to be in is the golden
uh you know quadrant which is the top
right one. That's the outcome based
pricing model where you have great
autonomy and great attribution. And here
is where I think AI can be really
magical. So this means you're not only
charging for work delivered but you're
charging for work delivered that was
delivered by AI without no humans in the
loop. So that becomes more of an outcome
based model situation. So a classic
example here is you know intercom for
Finn. Uh what they actually do is they
charge based on an AI resolution. So if
an AI is able to you know resolve the
ticket completely independently without
a human in the loop then they charge for
it. If a human intervention is needed
they don't charge for it. So they are
more on an outcome based model or like
companies like you know charge flow
would charge you know up to 25% on a
charge back that they are able to
actually recover because these are like
you know core savings that you actually
bring to the table based on your AI. It
is highly attributable highly
autonomous. So you can start moving
towards an outcomebased pricing model.
If you look at the state of where AI is
today as of the day of recording this
podcast, uh now the most popular model
is right now a hybrid pricing model. So
because this is also expected because
you know the previous SAS playbook was
usually on the seatbased model but
they've all now moved on to at least a
hybrid to actually incorporate AI
credits and usage etc. uh about 5% of
companies are probably in a true
outcomebased pricing model uh you know
as of as of today but those companies
some of the best ones are able to
recover 25 to 50% of the value that they
actually bring to the table in the
classic SAS situation we used to say if
you can charge 10 to 20% of the value
that's actually great but in AI you can
actually charge 25 to 50% because it is
autonomous you're doing it with the AI
there's no humans in the loop. You know,
you're creating incremental value to
like the business metrics. You're
producing hard cost savings as
opportunity costs. You can justify all
of that. It's attributable. So, you can
actually take 25 to 50% of what you
bring to the table in there lot of
benchmarks and studies that actually
show that and this is also my belief
that in the next 3 years that 5% number
will move to 25%. So what this really
means is if you want to win in AI,
figure out a way to get to that quadrant
because that's the magic quadrant. If
you can truly, you know, price based on
outcomes, you've achieved and unlock
tremendous value. Wow. Okay, I'm just
going to pause again. This is amazing,
Maravan. Thank you so much for I love
that again that you just spent years,
decades studying this stuff. Come here,
tell us all the answers of what we
should be doing. This is incredible. Let
me ask you this. Uh, by the way, for FEP
folks not watching on YouTube, the
companies you have in the golden
quadrant, outcome based pricing, Sierra,
Finn, and ChargeFlow, we've got the
founder of Sierra and Finn coming on the
podcast soon, so we'll talk about all
this with those guys.
>> Awesome.
>> So, so is the way to use this 2 by two
figuring out your model like is it like,
okay, I'm like cursor, I'm going to go
in this quadrant, or is it how do I get
to outcome base no matter what? that's
where I need to be.
>> Yeah. So that's a great question. The
first one is to actually figure out uh
you know what is your right archetype
based on where you are today. I think
that is most important like if you try
to rush into an outcome based pricing
model but cannot prove attribution you
will fail right. So it is really coming
up with uh what is the right architect
based on what I'm doing today but also
use this 2x two to say how do I you know
paint a vision to actually get to
outcome based and can I get how can I
get close to that or can I be purely an
outcome based model right how do I
evolve into that what that would mean is
you know how do I build functionality in
the products to actually show
attribution how do I build more agentic
workforces to like take the human out of
the loop and be more autonomous and
being thoughtful about your vision and
strategy so that you will orient
yourself towards more you know outcome
based pricing models. So when you think
about increasing attribution that means
first of all understanding you know what
are the KPIs of your uh customers how do
they track their business performance
can you impact it can you productize
things in your product that showcase
that you are actually affecting those
KPIs in a positive manner can you build
dashboards to show you know value
attribution uh can you do those value
audits that we talked about on an
ongoing basis to actually show that
you're bringing a lot of value to the
table and is attributable to too. So how
do you create these kind of attribution
mechanisms become important and also
autonomous based on like you know
building more agentic workforces that
can actually be on an autonomous mode.
So pick the right archetype and plan to
like get to like as close as you can to
the outcome based pricing model. That's
how I would use the 2x two. And you
actually kind of see this happening with
certain industries, right? If you think
about coding as a overall category like
uh you know back in the day with GitHub
everyone they started with a seatbased
model right they've now moved to like
the hybrid based pricing model with
cursors and everyone else but the
natural move would be more towards a
outcome based pricing model where you
know a AI agent can probably code
everything uh at the same time debug it
and you're kind of almost hiring a AI
developer or AI QA person and that
actually becomes more closer to like a
outcomebased model because it's
attributable and autonomous. So there is
picking the right archetype and then
figuring out your pathway is is the key
way to interpret this 2x two. This
explains why everyone's bullying agents.
That's where the money's at is what
you're telling us here.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And
>> it's going to be the age of the matrix.
Too many agents agent smiths everywhere.
That didn't turn out too great. Um so
what I'm hearing is if I were Canva, so
Canva here in your model is bottom
right. They're in a hybrid pricing
model. They have a base fee and
consumption fee. What I what you would
do if you were helping Canva is what can
you build that creates more autonomy, an
autonomous version of Canva? And it's
not like you need to do this. It's just
you have more pricing power if you
figure something out there.
>> Exactly. I mean and uh and a good case
for that is the you know fin product
from intercom because traditionally you
know all of those kind of companies used
to price based on an agent basis. how
many customer service agents are
actually using the product. It used to
be seedbased but they built out FIN
which is a completely AI resolution for
those kind of support tickets and then
that actually enables them to like move
to the outcome based pricing model
quadrant. Amazing. So you say you're an
AI founder today. You're thinking about
your pricing strategy, your monetization
strategy long term. Your advice is work
with design partners, create these PC's
where you work on this ROI model with
them to ideally find some outcomebased
pricing strategy. Is that a good way to
summarize? What would you add to that?
>> Yes. I mean, um, at least be able to
contextualize the business case. Even if
you're not moving to an outcomebased
pricing model, be clear on the outcome
that you're actually, you know, creating
for your customers through that business
case, which actually will enable you to
charge a fair price in exchange for that
outcome. And if you're, you know, if
your customers agree with the business
case, then you can actually take a
portion of that.
>> Finn actually, they're a new sponsor of
the podcast and I learned I didn't know
this. It cost 99 cents for every out for
every support ticket they sold
>> through AI. If it's a exactly if it
needs a human intervention then they
don't charge for it.
>> Yeah. And it's just like what that's
such a simple story. Your agent cost 20
bucks. This things cost 99 cents.
>> Yeah. That is uh two chapters in one.
Beautifully simple pricing and an
outcome based pricing model.
>> And interestingly they were the the
least like the most hated pricing model
initially. I did a survey on Twitter
once like what products you pay the most
for and it was always intercom and
everyone hated their pricing and they
found a solution. I think they have
found a great solution.
>> Okay. So, is there anything else along
these lines that you think companies
especially AI companies should be
thinking when they're thinking about
pricing that you want to share before we
move on to other stuff? I think we've
covered most of the topics like we said
it's uh you know being thoughtful about
PC's choosing the right you know pricing
archetype or the pricing models those
things become very critical in the early
stages but when you start scaling and
let's say you become a multi-product
company then you need to start focusing
on what what kind of packaging strategy
should I have is it a platform plus
add-ons should I have like versions of
the products like good better best
should I tackle different use cases
because now my AI can solve an insurance
use case and a you know healthcare use
case should I productize to like
different use cases is that my packaging
strategy or should I keep it completely
modularized for like people to pick and
choose so these kind of questions become
more critical and that's why the chapter
on uh blowing up your packaging from
your early days and coming up with your
packaging strategy for your scaleup
phase become very critical so I think
that's the next thing that founders
would be hit with as and when they build
multiple products they need to think
about the whole packaging,
cross-selling, upselling motion.
>> This touches on something I was about to
ask, which is a change in your pricing
strategy. Uh, how often does is does it
is it a success to change the way you
price? Like I know we're talking about
you need to get it right from the
beginning if you're an AI company. In
your experience, how often like what
does it take to successfully shift the
way you price down the road? If people
are listening to this and like we
already have this pricing strategy. Back
in the day, we used to say that you
should revisit your pricing strategy,
overall pricing model, you know, how
much you're charging at least once in
two years. With AI, that's probably
reduced in half. Um, because of the
scale with which and the speed with
which companies are built and competing.
So, I would say that it is an ongoing
journey. It is not like you just solve
it in day one, you know, fill it and
forget it. It has to be uh you know you
have to be thoughtful from day one but
also be ready to like pivot iterate and
you're going to learn along your
journey. So the whole point is to think
about pricing as also a test and learn
opportunity in your early days and there
are things that you would change more
often and there are things that you
probably don't want to change too often
like things like pricing model. Unless
you have, you know, really changed your
attribution autonomy, there is no need
to like shift your pricing model. Stay
within that archetype. Don't confuse
things. But there are things like price
points. Should I increase my price
because it's been, you know, 6 months or
a year? Yeah, you should because in a
year there's probably prices go up 3 to
5% for everything that you consume. But
how can you actually increase your
prices and be thoughtful about it? So
that entire chapter on how to do price
increases you know smartly become very
important in the you know scaleup phase.
I think Warren Buffett summarized this
really well. He said uh the true
definition of a company is a pricing
power and if you have a prayer session
for doing a 10% price increase you have
a terrible business. So you have to be
able to increase prices over a bit of
time. But how do you do it strategically
that does not affect too much churn but
you're also able to like pass on the
increase as a value exchange. those
things become critical. Awesome. Zooming
out a little bit, something that I love
about your book is you structured it
around these axioms. You have a bunch of
these really clever axioms that get
stuck in your head and help you think
about pricing. Can you share some of
your favorites, maybe two or three of
your favorite axioms from the book? U
you talked about uh Sierra being in your
part founders. I don't know if that's
Clay, but he has a shout out for like
Clay. So Clay actually u read the entire
book and gave me feedback scaling
innovation the similar copy that you
actually had and I had uh I called it
scaling innovation axioms throughout the
book and the whole point of the axioms
was that at the end of the day if you
can just take all the axioms put it in a
you know print out next to your desk
it's the summary of the book and it's
like PT statements that you will just
remember what to do. So he came up with
this idea that hey rather than calling
them just generic scaling innovation
axioms you need to brand each and every
axiom and I thought that was a brilliant
idea. So I went about coming up with a
unique he he even contributed some of
the names. So we came about you know we
we came up with some unique names for
each axiom. And here's the other fun
fact uh probably I'm geeking out too
much but when I counted the number of
axioms there were 42 axioms. Uh so and I
didn't try to make this up and if you're
Hitchhiker's fan then you know that's
the answer to everything. Uh but jokes
apart uh let me unpack a few axioms. The
first uh one of my first favorite axioms
what what I call as the 2080 axiom. So
in in especially in tech companies you
know 20% of what you build drives 80% of
the willingness to pay. But the irony is
that that 20% is the easiest thing to
build often. So what founders do is they
put this take this 20% build it put it
out in the market almost for free and
then they're chasing their tails to
build 80% stuff that's only driving 20%
willingness to pay. So if you have not
been thoughtful about that you've given
the farm away unintentionally. So truly
understanding what drives willingness to
pay in your product is critical. And I
think you know people call it the MVP. I
think we should change the definition of
MVP. It shouldn't be minimum viable
product. It should be the most valuable
product and be thoughtful about what are
you actually giving out as your early
products I think is key. That's the 2080
axiom. Probably my second one is the you
know uh price paralysis axioms. So um
you know what that means is your
reluctance to do a price increase is
often internal and emotional and it's
not external and logical. This goes back
to the same uh you know prayer session
to actually do a price increase. If
you're holding hands, you have a
terrible business, right? I mean, so
like it's mostly internal and emotional
and how do you how do you be thoughtful
about price increases become important.
My probably my uh uh you know, third
favorite one is stopping churn before it
happens is stopping churn axiom. Um so
to stop churn, you need to attract
customers who won't leave. That sounds
counterintuitive, but that's the best
way to actually stop churn. What does
this actually mean? You know most
companies would try to stop churn when
someone actually says I want to go. It
is too late and you're being reactive.
At the most you'll throw some offers.
They will stay for another 6 months and
they will leave. They've already made
that determination. The way to stop
churn is to start up start acquiring
customers who won't leave and that is
the most important thing. So if you look
back at your you know data and say who
are the types of customers who actually
tend to stay longer, what are their
characteristics? How can I focus my
acquisition dollars in getting more of
those than your stop churn before it
happens?
>> And that's the key.
>> That's interesting. I'm surprised you
didn't say what was my favorite, which
is I think it's like if you land, make
sure to expand.
>> Yeah,
>> that one really stuck with me.
>> Maybe talk about that one. Yeah,
>> sure. I mean, so if you if you land, you
need to also make sure you're you're
expanding in the sense that, you know,
if you give the farm away in your entry-
level product, you don't have much to
actually, you know, monetize later. So
being thoughtful about you know what is
the fence between your land product uh
you know what is it a free experience
what what is the gating and the gating
is typically based on you know are you
gating based on features are you also
getting based on usage and how do you be
thoughtful about that so you leave stuff
for the expansion. Okay. So, zooming out
even further to kind of wrap up, what
would you say is the biggest lesson you
want founders to take away that they're
probably they think they understand but
they probably don't. Yeah, I think this
comes back to what you started with. I
think intuitively people get it that
they need to think about market share
and wallet share if they're going and
even if you ask them they say like yeah
yeah I'm thinking about wallet share but
have they really thought about it uh
equally and paid equal attention? Have
they you know postponed one of them? Are
they operating in a single engine
strategy consciously or subconsciously?
I think that's the key takeaway I have.
So the contrarian take is not to put
equal effort on both the you know
engines at the same time. In certain
stages of your company you might need to
be more market share dominating. In
certain stages you might need to be
wallet share dominating. It's not equal
effort but it's equal attention. and
like really developing that mindset of
being a true profitable growth architect
and that is the main takeaway that I
have for people and if you are not in
that mindset already there's a book for
you I'll point them to it so just so
folks know what to do when they're like
okay I need to focus on wallet share
more is the main focus figure out a
pricing model that aligns well with
pricing power what's like what's in the
bucket of work to do to invest more in
wallet wallet share thinking.
>> So it it's actually all of those uh you
know uh market share, wallet share,
acquisition, monetization, retention are
all kind of like correlated. You can't
think about them in isolation. So I
wouldn't say only for wallet share what
do you need to do if you want to grow on
both the market share and wallet share.
Let's say for instance you know you need
to have the right land and expand
strategy. The land helps you with uh
acquisition. The expansion helps you
with wallet share. Um if you have a you
know pricing model then you need to have
a pricing model that lets you acquire
faster because it's intuitive but it
should also help you recover value which
is like your monetization and if people
understand your pricing model they're
actually going to stay. So it's all sort
of you know goes hand in hand. Um so I
wouldn't isolate thinking one way or the
other. That's why the nine strategies
actually are very powerful because if
you follow those strategies, you're not
going to fall into the single engine
trap. These are tried and tested
strategies of how to build businesses in
such a way that you're being thoughtful
and paying equal attention to both
market share and wallet share.
>> All right, that is a very reasonable
answer. Manabon, is there anything else
you wanted to share or leave listeners
with before we get to a very exciting
lightning round? read the two books in
sequence, monetizing innovation and
scaling innovation because it's one
thing to build a great product. It's yet
another thing to build a great business.
You cannot build a great business with a
not so great product and you cannot do
it the other way around either. So I
think it's uh having thinking about
pricing early uh especially for AI
companies being thoughtful about it know
like like you know price before product
and then thinking about how to actually
scale developing a profitable growth
mindset all of these things become
critical and I'm looking forward to the
feedback from the audience.
>> I feel like your books are kind of like
in the the staple of founder reading.
there's like all these things you just
don't know what you're doing and there's
a few of these books that are like okay
here's all this advice that'll answer so
many questions and save you so much
heartache and so uh I'm really excited
you you're adding something to that
bookshelf with that we reached our very
exciting lightning round argument
>> okay let's go
>> let's go two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people the first one that comes to mind
is Business Model Canvas by Alex
Ostraaler is a classic and one of my
favorite books I recommend a lot of
people to read that because I think it
nicely ties a lot of what we are also
saying from a more strategic business
model angle. I like this book uh
thinking fast thinking slow. I think
that's also a classic because again uh
you know there's always a human element
to things and understanding the customer
psychology is important whether you're
in B2C or in B2B because if you're in a
B2B situation is humans having a human
conversation. So like it's as much
behavioral as it's actually numbers. So
I I love that book and there's a lot of
nuggets in there. So I recommend it a
lot. And probably the third one that I
recommend is a book uh called Contagious
by Jonah Burgerer. Uh I love that. he
was in the PhD program at Stanford um in
marketing and he actually wrote this
book on how to make messages viral and
he's actually seen you know the best
viral messages and boil it down to a
framework and if you follow that um then
you can make those messages viral and
I've tried to use some of those in uh
you know my own outreaches and things of
that nature. So I think it's a it's a
fantastic read.
>> Wow. Check this out and I have not. I
haven't even heard of it. All right.
Well, we're gonna go viral there. So, we
got the playbook.
>> Contagious. That's the name of the book.
>> Contagious. Okay, we'll link to that. Is
there uh a recent movie or TV show
you've really enjoyed?
>> I guess uh movie. Sure. Let's pick a
movie. Um definitely enjoyed uh Mission
Impossible uh the final one. Eighth in
the sequence. I I think I find that a
whole uh I love those the entire genre 1
through eight. Uh but what I kind of
like about it is my willingness to pay
has constantly increased over a period
of time. They could have charged me
whatever they wanted for the eighth
movie. I would have probably gone and
seen it because I wanted to. So I
thought that's a interesting example of
like a durable brand where your you know
your monetization power actually
increase over a period of time. So I
think um I enjoyed the movie u it was
great. Um yeah I mean hey by the way I
just realized MI stands for monetizing
innovation and also Mission Impossible.
Maybe subconsciously that's why I liked
it too.
>> And you're the Tom Cruz character. You
must That's So I love how you're the
only person in the world that thinks of
Mission Impossible through monetization,
willingness to pay.
>> Exactly. I think there's too many of
these dinner conversations also
gravitate towards pricing and and
monetization. I think it's become my
life. So
>> Oh man, we need a we need a version of
this movie like a Mission Impossible of
Monavon.
>> Sure.
>> I pay I pay anything for that.
All right, next question. Do you have a
favorite product you recently discovered
that you really love?
>> Um, I would probably talk about two
products. The first one is uh Deli uh
the you know digital mind
representation. That's a Lenny bot that
you actually uh I think put out. So I
think I find that product fascinating
and I also love the founders D and Sam
there. I I truly believe that that is
going to be the future for like you know
thought leadership and how thoughts are
consumed by like consumers. Like if I
can and I've used your Lenny bot. I
really enjoy it. Like if I can, you
know, co-create some thought leadership
piece with talking to you, but it's not
you, your AI, and it's actually living
and breathing your brain. How cool is
that? And I think that I I really love
the product category. There's a lot of,
you know, different use cases, longit
longevity extension use cases, things of
that nature. I'm excited about uh about
the product. I think it's it's been
great. I I plan to taking inspiration
from you plan to create a deli of
myself. I think it should be out before
the uh book maybe I'll try to that's the
promise try to keep it ready. So I think
if you want to talk more about uh the
book or things of that nature and talk
pricing, you can talk to my AI too,
right? I mean I I find the product
fascinating. The second one I would
probably say that's been super uh useful
in terms of just productivity is
granola. We we love that product. I
think just the ability to take notes and
during all the meetings and you know
organize it and being able to query
things etc. I think it's been a great
product uh that we recently started
trying and uh we've been really liking
it. Cool. That's been the most mentioned
product recently. How cool is that? Love
granola. Get a year free of granola if
you're a paid subscriber to my
newsletter. Lenny'snewsletter.com. Click
bundle. One year free. Not just you,
your whole team. What an offer they
offer. It's crazy. Uh on Deli. What's
interesting about Lennybot is it's not
just my knowledge, it's every single
podcast guest's insights and lessons
also fed into it. So, it's uh what an
oracle of knowledge this thing's become.
And it's free at this point. completely
free. Lennybot.com. No, I I get nothing
from it. It's just out there. Okay, next
question. Uh, do you have a favorite
life motto that you often come back to
and find useful in work or in life?
>> You know, create value in everything and
anything that you touch, everything else
will follow. That's my life motto.
>> That resonates deeply. Okay, last
question. You recently moved into
investing. So what's cool is you used to
be very expensive to work with at Simon
Kutcher I think it was called very
expensive a lot of big company stuff now
a lot more founders have access to you
because you're investing in startups so
just talk about that talk about what
you're doing these days sure I mean at
at Simon Kutcher you know I got to uh
work with over 250 companies and my
co-GP now Josh Bloom uh he also had an
opportunity to work with about 250
companies so combined we work with over
500 companies more than you know 50 plus
unic Cons. It was a great ride. Um, and
often we were actually working with them
in much later stages, you know, when
series D or preipo, post IPO, private
equity companies, etc. Um, but the two
of us actually now started a venture
firm with an explicit goal of working
with early stage AI founders. And it
goes back to the topic that we started
with, you know, AI companies needs to
deal with monetization from day one. But
for those kind of companies, you know,
FIFA service transaction model doesn't
necessarily work. Um, and that's also
why we pivoted to like venture. So our
business model is pretty uh, you know,
pretty standard right now. If you get
access in the cap table, we roll up our
sleeves and work with the founders and
all monetization. So we invested in
their success and we will partake in the
value creation. Um, there's no fee for
service, no friction on those kind of
manners. But on the flip side, we get to
concentrate our efforts uh uh in fund
one and probably 20 to 25 companies and
that's where we will be spending our
time.
>> What a deal. Manavon, two final
questions. Where can folks find you if
they want to reach out and talk about
this offer? And how can listeners be
useful to you?
>> Ways to find out. I think uh just uh
Google for monetizing innovation and
scaling innovation. You'll probably land
in a lot of pages. You can also go to
Amazon. I think if you want to purchase
the book actually uh scaling innovation
is now available in pre-order. Um I
think we'll have the pot part released
uh before the book is actually out. The
book is going to be out on August 5th.
So there's an opportunity to pre-order
and maybe I will uh take an inspiration
from your master bundle which I really
think is the world's best bundle uh and
come up with my own bundle for like
getting users to like pre-order. So if
you love monetizing innovation I can
tell you you would really love scaling
innovation. So, go buy it for your
teams, uh, buy it for yourself, and, uh,
here's the offer. So, for anyone who's
able to like buy more than five copies,
send us a, uh, you know, screenshot of
your purchase, pre-order, right? Send us
a screenshot of your purchase to promo
at 49psvc.com.
So, that's promo as in promotion at
49pmvc.com.
And here's the bundle offer that I have.
10 people will get access to uh you know
bundles as a raffle. And the bundle is
going to include a signed copy of
Scaling Innovation, uh a 30 minute ask
me anything session, an exclusive invite
for a scaling innovation book launch and
also a scaling innovation t-shirt. So
that's my uh coming up with a bundle. I
didn't get granola and others to put in
for me just yet. But I think this
hopefully suffices and is exciting for
folks uh to buy. Um and yeah, I mean uh
if you like the book uh please do leave
a review on Amazon. That always is
helpful because if more people review
it, um the book takes a life of its own.
And I'm really thankful for also the
support that I got over the years from
founder community, from the venture
community, for monetizing innovation.
And I think there's been, you know, over
the last uh 8 years, thousands and
thousands of fans of the books. They've
done a whole lot talking about it,
writing reviews, uh, you know, posting
uh, on LinkedIn and, uh, you know,
making things like price before product
or, you know, price product market price
fit and things as a part of founder
vocabulary. So, I'm very passionate that
people actually did that and very
thankful for them. Uh so there's also
probably uh in equal measure if you're
excited about scaling innovation uh I
would love for you to talk about the
book.
>> Amazing. And I think the reason people
do that is because you give away so much
for free. Like you know you you just
shared so much wisdom for free that is
going to help so many people. So
>> yeah I just tried to plan my give and
get right there.
Oh my god. A good call back. Uh Maravan,
this is incredible. Thank you so much
for being here.
>> Thank you so much Lenny. It was a
pleasure.
>> Same. Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.